With that, I would like to test the script.
So since we have the CLI tool working properly,
what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and make sure this works,
then we're going to go to the console and verify that it actually work,
and we'll go from there.
Let's reopen the terminal here.
There's my pointer.
All right.
So let's do a test here,
make sure everything's working properly.
All right. We're ready to go.
So what we're going to do is let's find
our file which is I believe is called "testcfn". There it is.
The way to deploy it is,
I would do AWS CloudFormation,
and because I already know it doesn't exist,
I'm going to do a create stack command.
Create stack I believe is the command.
This command is to create a stack.
A stack in CloudFormation is a group of resources.
So right now it's just a text file,
its just a script in YAML format,
so far it's meaningless.
But once we create a stack,
it actually goes out there to
the AWS datacenter and allocates resources that we can actually use.
So this is the part when it becomes a reality.
The infrastructure as code becomes actual infrastructure.
So the Create Stack command is probably going to need stack name.
So we'll do a stack name and call it our first test.
It's probably going to need a region as well.
Although I think we defaulted that value but let's just make sure and put US West 2.
There's no parameters.
So we just have straight up values in our file so we don't need
that and obviously we're going to need a template body.
That template body is going to be a file and that file is "testcfn.yml".
I might be missing something here but errors are good for troubleshooting,
so we'll get to that. All right.
Once we execute this command,
we get our stack ID right away.
With that stack ID, we can go to CloudFormation and
verify something that might be happening.
A stack when it runs it's based on
events so you'll have creation event which is what's happening now.
It my switch to "in progress" right after that and I'll take awhile there.
Once is "in progress" is done,
it will go to "complete" or it my go to "clean up complete" because sometimes you'll have
to create temporary resources and those needs to
be destroyed and cleaned up prior to to ending.
This life cycle becomes a lot more interesting when we're doing
a stack update because not all the time we're
going to destroy the resources and recreate everything.
There are times when we just want to change
a little something in a server and we want to be able to do that.
So we just use the create stack command but there's also an update stack command,
and that will help you with that in order to be able to
create updates to your stacks and not just destroy and create every single time.
Right now, since we just created a networking component that is empty,
we can destroy it and recreate it as needed many times,
so there's no harm done.
Right. Now that we know this's executed,
let's go to our console and validate our work.
So we'll switch back to the AWS console and we're going to type CloudFormation this time.
I'm going to click on it. Again, since we fired the script into US West 2,
make sure that's the region that is displayed.
The appropriate name for it is
Oregon US West Oregon and you will not see it unless you select this region in this case.
Now, we will see that it says our first test and it
says create complete. So let's take a look.
Here in this stack, you're going to see several items.
The most important to you is going to be the events down
the bottom because this is where you're going to look for
error messages if you did something wrong and you're going to have a red event
that's going to show you an error and that's going to help you troubleshoot your script.
In this case we just have a creative progress that
later transitioned into a create complete.
Let's take a look over here.
This is the create complete for the VPC resource we created and it gives you a VPC ID.
For AWS, the only thing that matters is the VPC ID.
So remember that name that we gave it,
whatever name it maybe,
it doesn't matter in this case.
But now, we get to verify if this actually worked.
So we'll go to Services or type
VPC and we'll go
to our US West region,
in this case Oregon right here,
and we'll click VPCs and we should have an additional
10.0.0.0 /16 which was the value that we specified here in the cider block.
So as you can see,
we have an additional one that we just created and we can
validate that by looking at the resource ID.
You see one that says here delta one delta and seven echo alpha.
Let's verify. One of those two is going to be the one we created.
So I'll go back to CloudFormation.
Click "ourfirsttest", This is our stack.
I'll go down here and
sure enough delta one delta is one of the ones that we created and that's our VPC.
So we've verified that it works but let's try a few other commands.
So I'll go back here.
What happens if I try to create it again? What is it going to do?
Let's see. If I type the exact same command again, you get an error.
It says already exists.
That's absolutely perfect. That's what you want.
So next time if you wanted to change something,
what you would do is you would send an update stack command.
Okay. Not a create stack.
That was probably your intention here.
You wanted to update it but you forgot to change the command which still says create and
it's telling you an error that says this stack
is already there and has deployed resources.
You probably don't want to create.
Because that will create an override situation.
You never want to override
resources especially if you're working in your production again.